{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f32\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f33\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f35\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f36\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f37\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f38\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f39\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f40\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f41\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}
{\f43\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f44\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f45\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}{\f46\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f47\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\author Tom Lambert}{\operator Tom Lambert}{\creatim\yr2004\mo1\dy29\hr11\min44}{\revtim\yr2004\mo1\dy30\hr19\min31}{\version15}
{\edmins160}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords1196}{\nofchars6821}{\*\company ergophobia.com}{\nofcharsws8376}{\vern8269}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701
\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0\sectd \linex0\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f1\fs20 Isabella,
\par 
\par I have a rough test version of the database up.  My TODO list is still two pages long, but it works in a basic way right now.  I will do some optimization to make it faster, but mostly that is just a question of server speed, server load and con
nection speed.  It\rquote s just going to take a while to generate long lists of records and process things compared to when running Access locally.  The DB is actually quite fast \endash  much faster than Access \endash 
 but it has to connect over the network and all that, so the apparent speed is anywhere from a bit slower to a lot slower depending on network status.
\par 
\par Instead of working on the actual database, take some time to play with this.  Do anything you want (except \'93real\'94 work), because all of this data will eventually be thrown away.  It\rquote s just to get your reaction about things you don\rquote 
t like or things you would like to see.  Don\rquote t be shy.  There are only so many things I can think of myself and we may work in quite different ways.  There may be features you would like or things that seem illogical or cumbersome to you.
\par 
\par Have fun.  In the local version I have been giving people occupations like \'93funkadelic disco king\'94 and parentage like \'93Annakin Skywalker\'94.  Amuse yourself.
\par 
\par 
\par To get started, log in to your account.
\par 
\par http://ergophobia.com/consistory/
\par 
\par username: isbiwatt
\par password: biscotto
\par 
\par Once logged in, you will get to your user preferences page.
\par 
\par You can set your preferences there to determine which page to open by default.
\par 
\par Most pages have some rudimentary navigation along the top.  Depending on context, you will notice links for all other pages available to you in the current context.  I give you a rundown of the various pages below, but first, some common features.
\par 
\par - most pages have, as I say, navigation links across the top.
\par - several pages (where logical) have a set of quicksearch boxes on the top and bottom.  These let you quickly sort of all people named \'93Favre\'94 for example.  By default, you will see boxes as follows:
\par 
\par lastname    Includes   blank   sort by   lastname    Find
\par 
\par So if you fill in the blank with Porral and hit [RETURN] it will find all records where Porral is included in the last name and sort them by last name.  If you want to search for first-name fields that begin with \'93Jean\'94
 and you want to sort them by occupation, you can select as appropriate from the drop-down boxes.  Search terms are not case-sensitive, so \'93jean\'94 is the same as \'93Jean\'94.
\par 
\par The quicker way is to position the cursor on the first box (the lastname box) and then
\par 
\par  - type \'93f\'94 (this will select the \'93firstname\'94 field)
\par - hit [TAB]  (takes you to the next field)
\par - type \'93b\'94 (selects \'93Begins With\'94)
\par - hit [TAB] (takes you to the blank field)
\par }{\f1\fs20\lang1036\langfe1033\langnp1036 - type \'93Jean\'94
\par }{\f1\fs20 - hit [TAB] (takes you to last field)
\par - type \'93o\'94 (selects \'93occupation\'94 as the sort field)
\par - hit [RETURN] (runs query)
\par 
\par You can perform more advanced searches on the \'93Advanced Search\'94 page, but this is a quick way to filter.
\par 
\par The navigation links along the top take you to all major pages available from the current context.  They also perform a few other tasks.  Here is a description of the page that the link takes you to or the task it performs.
\par 
\par [Preferences and Recent Filters]  
\par 
\par This page is sort of your \'93home\'94 page.  It has 
\par   -- your user info (name, password, email)
\par   --  your interface preferences (limited right now to setting number of records per page in search results and preferred start page)
\par   --  A link to the last page you have visited (potentially useful for finding your place again after logging back in)
\par   --  a list of the last ten filters you have applied.  \'93Filters\'94 are saved searches.  Since the filters are in SQL, you may need to get used to the format.  I could try to parse them and make them more presentable, but that would be tough.
\par 
\par 
\par [Advanced Search]
\par 
\par Basically has two modes.  One is a \'93wizard mode\'94 that lets you put in a multi-term search and let the program build the search for you
.  As in the quicksearch bar on the top of pages, if you enter the first letter of one of the selection items (e.g. \'93f\'94 for \'93firstname\'94
), that will select that item from the drop-down box.  The terms you enter yourself are not case sensitive, so \'93Jean\'94 is the same as \'93jean\'94.
\par 
\par \'93SQL mode\'94 allows you to put in straight SQL (the WHERE clause of an SQL query).  I have not really built in much error checking so if you write incorrect SQL, it will probably fail, but hopefully not catastrophically.  Making this mor
e robust is on the TODO list.
\par 
\par 
\par [View Record List]
\par 
\par If a filter is active, this link will be available and will take you back to the list of records resulting from your filter.  This will displa
y as many records as you have set in your preferences.  Each record will have a link for the ID number and for the detailed annotations, which will take you to the detailed record.
\par 
\par If the list has multiple pages, there is a set of navigation links to take you from page to page.  I need to have it list the total number of pages.  For now, you can figure that out by hovering over the \'93END\'94
 link and looking in the status bar of your browser (the URI will end with something like \'93page=28\'94).
\par 
\par [Remove Filter]
\par 
\par If you apply a filter, you only see those records.  This link removes the filter so you can see all records.  So if you have filtered for \'93Favre\'94 and you want to see records that do not match your filter, yo
u need to click this link to remove the filter.
\par 
\par 
\par [Record View]
\par 
\par This takes you to the main form with all the record details.  It allows you to make changes to existing records and a fundamentally similar page allows you to create new records.  Once changes are made, you must \'93submit\'94
 them using one of the buttons on the lower left.  If there is no filter, you will see two buttons:
\par 
\par  - Update and Review: updates with the new information and shows the record again
\par  - Reset: resets the values to whatever they were when you opened the page and takes no further action.
\par 
\par If you have applied a filter, you will have a third option
\par 
\par  - Update and Return to List: this commits your changes for the current record and then brings you back to the list generated by your filter.
\par 
\par This page also has grey navigation arrows similar to the ones used in Microsoft Access, which take you to (going left to right) the First, Previous, Next and Last records of the record set, and a fifth allows you to create a new record.  Two things
 to keep in mind:
\par 
\par 1. The next, previous, last and first records are context dependent.   If a filter is active, it is the next record in your filtered records set, not the next in the database.
\par 
\par 2. If you make changes to a record, you must first submit them, then move to a new record.  If you use these arrows to go to a new record without submitting, your changes will be lost.  This could be changed, but it is a question of whether it is 
better to accidentally submit data that you don\rquote t intend to submit, or to accidentally fail to submit data that you intend to submit.  The current setup defaults to submit and to show you the record again (either in detail or in the list)
.  That seems like a valuable check.
\par 
\par There is currently a check box to the left of the record number, that currently does nothing.  In the near future, it will allow you to create a set of flagged records so you can filter for them.
\par 
\par 
\par [New Record]
\par 
\par You can open a blank record from most screens.  should be pretty obvious. Firstname and Lastname fields *must* be filled in with something (an X or a NA at the very least).
\par 
\par 
\par Have a look and give a call if you need help.  Try to play with it first, because if you can\rquote 
t figure it out, I've most definitely failed to create a database that Bob and Wallace can use and need to fix it.  I would prefer that you try to use it for a bit and make a list of things that
\par 
\par - don\rquote t work
\par - don\rquote t make sense
\par - are missing
\par 
\par Then let\rquote s talk about it.
\par 
\par Some things would be easy to change.  For example, you may prefer that when you click an arrow to see the next record, that it will save any changes to the current record.  That would be easy to change.  If you
 want to be able to make quick changes in records as they appear in the search list, that would be possible, but a bit more cumbersome.  I am working on making it both possible and nice. 
\par 
\par 
\par }}